>> Mike: We can activate type checking in
Visual Studio Code in one of two ways.
If you're working with a project
that already involves typescript,
you would go to this tsconfig file,
which is in the root of your project, and
you would add this to your configuration.
Say checkJs : true, that means it's not
just gonna look at the typescript files
and make sure the types are good there,
it'll also check your regular JavaScript.
Additionally, regardless of what kind of
JavaScript program you're working with,
you can add this comment as
the first line of the file and
type checking will be done
on that particular file.
So if I go to, I'll need to create a new
file here cuz I blew that one away.
Collapse all.
>> Mike: Okay,
so if I have something like this, let
>> Mike: Let
x = 15.
>> Mike: So
here I am messing with the types.
No complaints, but when I add this,
you can see we get type of 157 is
not assignable to type number.
So it's basically said okay,
you initialized this.
If I hover over x it's
gonna say that's a number.
And you better keep it a number because
we don't flip flop around types anymore.
Particularly, people make some mistakes
in this area where they flip-flop
between types, often when they're
reading from an input or something.
So if you've got an input and
you expect a number to be there,
you're basically gonna usually
get text out of an input.
So if you start out with
initially my value is 15, and
let's two-way bind this to the value of
this input, it'll end up being a number,
I mean, being a string as soon as
the user hits a keystroke, usually.
So that is how to use type checking
in regular JavaScript, ts-check.